feat(alerts): Adds docs for Crash Rate Alerts (#4217)
getsentry/sentry-docs: src/docs/product/alerts/create-alerts/crash-rate-alert-config.mdx

---

> title: Crash-rate Alert Configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Crash-Rate Alert Configuration
```

> sidebar_order: 20

Reviewer: ```suggestion
sidebar_order: 30
```

redirect_from:
 - /product/sentry-basics/guides/alert-notifications/crash-rate-alerts/

> description: "Learn more about the options for configuring a crash rate alert."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Learn more about the options for configuring a crash-rate alert."
```

---

> Sentry provides several configuration options to create a crash rate alert based on your organization's needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sentry provides several configuration options to create a crash-rate alert based on your organization's needs.
```

### Environment

Specify which <PlatformLink to="/configuration/environments/">environment(s)</PlatformLink> will use this particular alert rule. This control filters on the `environment` tag in your events. This filter is helpful because the urgency and workflows you apply to production alerts might differ from those you apply to alerts originating from your QA environment, for example.

The “Env:” dropdown list here has the same environments that are available for the selected project in the global “Environment” dropdown (this does not include hidden environments). Selecting "All" is equivalent to having no environment filter.

### Tags & Attributes

Add filters in the field provided to narrow down what you'll be alerted about. Crash rate alert support release tag to narrow down your alert to a specific release.

> ## Crash Rate Alerts (Function + Time Interval)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Crash Rate (Function + Time Interval)
```

> Depending on the type of crash rate alert you’ve selected, the corresponding function is built into the alert and the settings aren't displayed. For example, if you select “Crash Free Sessions Rate”, that translates to the function, `percentage(sessions_crashed, sessions)`. Since editing this function would change the nature of the alert, it is not editable and thus hidden.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the type of crash-rate alert you’ve selected, the corresponding function is built into the alert and the settings aren't displayed. For example, if you select “Crash Free Sessions Rate”, that translates to the function, `percentage(sessions_crashed, sessions)`. Since editing this function would change the nature of the alert, it is not editable and thus hidden.
```

### Functions for Alerting

> Both types of crash rate alerts basically use the percentage function, that calculates the crash free percentage on either the user or the sessions.

Reviewer: Not sure what you mean by "basically" here - do you mean we've modified the function somewhat or something else? Maybe "use a modified percentage function" would work?

```suggestion
Both types of crash-rate alerts use the percentage function, which calculates the crash free percentage on either the user or the sessions.
```
